#  Bearer Authorization

Bearer authentication (also called token authentication) is an HTTP authentication scheme that involves security tokens called bearer tokens. The name “Bearer authentication” can be understood as “give access to the bearer of this token.” The bearer token is a cryptic string, usually generated by the server in response to a login request. The client must send this token in the Authorization header when making requests to protected resources:

```
Authorization: Bearer <token>
```

The Bearer authentication scheme was originally created as part of OAuth 2.0 in RFC 6750, but is sometimes also used on its own. Similarly to Basic authentication, Bearer authentication should only be used over HTTPS (SSL).


## Client ID
Your client ID , also referred to as a UCI , is on all documents you get from us. It is an eight or ten-digit number that looks like this: 0000-0000 or 00-0000-0000. If you are applying to us for the first time, you will not yet have a client ID .


## Client Secret

A client secret is a secret known only to your application and the authorization server. It protects your resources by only granting tokens to authorized requestors. Protect your client secrets and never include them in mobile or browser-based apps.

## Authentication Endpoint

The /authorize endpoint is used to interact with the resource owner and get the authorization to access the protected resource. To better understand this, imagine that you want to log in to a service using your Google account. First, the service redirects you to Google in order to authenticate (if you are not already logged in) and then you will get a consent screen, where you will be asked to authorize the service to access some of your data (protected resources); for example, your email address and your list of contacts.



This endpoint is used by the Authorization Code and the Implicit grant types. The authorization server needs to know which grant type the application wants to use since it affects the kind of credential it will issue:

For the Authorization Code grant, it will issue an authorization code (which can later be exchanged for an access token at the /oauth/token endpoint).

For the Implicit grant, it will issue an access token, which is an opaque string (or a JWT in an Auth0 implementation) that denotes who has authorized which permissions (scopes) to which application.

## Access Token Endpoint

It can be found out from the token_endpoint advertised in the Connect2id server metadata and has this form:
```
https://[base-server-url]/token
```
## API Endpoint
An Application Programming Interface (API) allows two systems to communicate with one another. An API essentially provides the language and contract for how two systems interact. Each API has documentation and specifications which determine how information can be transferred.

Just like a webpage is rendered, APIs can use HTTP requests to get information from a web application or web server.  

APIs are typically categorized as either SOAP or REST and both are used to access web services. SOAP relies solely on XML to provide messaging services, while REST offers a more lightweight method, using URLs in most cases to receive or send information. REST uses four different HTTP 1.1 verbs (GET, POST, PUT, and DELETE) to perform tasks.

Unlike SOAP, REST doesn’t have to use XML to provide the response. You can find REST-based Web services that output the data in Command Separated Value (CSV), JavaScript Object Notation (JSON) and Really Simple Syndication (RSS). The point is that you can obtain the output you need in a form that’s easy to parse within the language you need for your application.






